
In case you haven't seen it, Damien has got many photos and some documentation
regarding his CNC machine here:

http://www.ph.unimelb.edu.au/~dpgeorge/cnc/

That's very handy, especially if you didn't make it to the weekend's session to
see the machine in action.

Damien's design employs an ATmega324P as the main microcontroller.
I would propose building our machine using an ATmega644P as the main
microcontroller, for no reason other than the simple fact that I already have
two of them sitting right in front of me as I type this.

The ATMega644P has 64 k of memory compared to 32 k on the ATmega324, however, in
every other respect they are identical, pin-compatible devices. The devices I
have stock of are 40-pin DIP through-hole packages, the same package as used on
Damien's controller board.

Damien's original design incorporates a CP2102 USB-to-UART bridge IC for the USB
interface into the microcontroller. In case you haven't heard of it, the CP2102
chip is essentially identical to the USB-to-UART chips manufactured by FTDI and
used, for example, on Arduino boards.

On our build, however, I propose that we replace the CP2102 chip with a FTDI
FT232RL IC.

The CP2102 is only available in a QFN-28 package, which is a leadless chip with
seven pads on each side on the bottom of the chip, on a chip which is 5 mm wide
on each side. It would be almost impossible for a hobbyist to fabricate.
The FT232RL is still a fairly compact surface mount device, but it is far, far
easier to solder up compared to the former device.

The FT232RL devices seems to have the same functionality that we need as the
CP2102 device, but it clso costs less, with the FT232RL (Digi-Key 768-1007-2-ND)
costing USD $2.65 and the CP2102 (Digi-Key 336-1160-ND) costing USD $3.98.

Both the CP2102 and the FTDI require their virtual com port (VCP) drivers to be
installed on the host PC. This isn't really an advantage or a disadvantage
either way, since the drivers are readily available in either case.

Then again, anybody who has ever used an Arduino, for example, knows that they
certainly already have the FTDI drivers installed and functioning on their
system.

As far as any other hardware, software or firmware design choices or setup are
concerned, there are absolutely no differences between these two devices, since
they both do exactly the same thing.

Neither of these chips require any external components, except for the USB
connector and a couple of power supply decoupling capacitors, so there is no
advantage or disadvantage imposed either way in that regard.

Damien has used the Allegro A3977 stepper motor driver IC; this IC looks like a
pretty good device, and it's what we know is proven in the existing design, so
I see no reason to make any hardware changes for this part of the design;
although it would be nice to have the schematic for this available, if only for
documentation purposes. 

The A3977 is available, in 44-pin PLCC package, as Digi-Key 620-1146-1-ND, for
USD $8.31 in single quantities. 

The front panel of our electronics box will incorporate a power indicator
light, (or at least it should), but this power indicator could either be a
240 VAC neon indicator lamp, or a LED connected to the low voltage DC supply rail.

The front panel on Damien's machine includes a stepper motor lockout switch
which disconnects the 24 V rail from the stepper motor controller boards,
preventing the CNC machine from moving. I assume we will keep this switch in
our design, there seems to be no reason to change it or get rid of it, so it
might be a good idea to have both an indicator light (a LED) on the 24 V rail
so you can see when the 24 V rail is turned on, as well as a neon indicator
lamp connected to the 240 VAC supply.

I don't know for sure, but I assume that the indicator LED on Damien's machine
is just connected to the 24 V rail or something like that. It would be nice to
incorporate a 240 VAC power indicator as well.

On the back panel of the machine we have a 240 VAC input in the form of an
IEC socket, plus a switch and fuse for the 240 VAC input. I think it would
be nice to use a Jaycar PP-4003 IEC socket module, which incorporates the
IEC socket, the mains switch, and the fuse into one integrated module,
which is nice and neat, requires less cutouts in the panel, and less
wiring.












